First batch for the new components doc (#24571)
DataDog/datadog-agent: docs/public/components/creating-components.md

      impl-<alternate> / <-- An alternate implementation.
      impl-none /        <-- Optional. A noop implementation.
      fx /               <-- All fx related logic for the primary implementation, if any.
      fx-<alternate> /   <-- All fx related logic for a specific implementation.
      mock /             <-- The mock implementation of the component to ease testing.
```

<!-- TODO: where do we put the `optional.NoneOption` ? Into its own fx-none folder ? -->

To note:

* If your component has only one implementation it should live in the `impl` folder.
* If your component has several implementations instead of a single implementation, you have multiple `impl-<version>` folders instead of an `impl` folder.
For example, our compression component will have `impl-zstd` and `impl-zip` folders, but not an `impl` folder.
* If your component needs to offer a dummy/empty version it should live in the `impl-none` folder.

### Why all those files ?

This file hierarchy aimed at solving a few problems:

* Component users should only interact with the `def` folders and never care about which implementation was loaded in the

>   main.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  main function.
```

please check: is "function" the intended word here?

=== ":octicons-file-code-16: comp/compression/fx-zstd/fx.go"
    ```go
    package fxzstd

    import (
        "github.com/DataDog/datadog-agent/pkg/util/fxutil"

        // You must import the implementation you are exposing through FX
        implzstd "github.com/DataDog/datadog-agent/comp/compression/impl-zstd"
    )

    // Module specifies the compression module.
    func Module() fxutil.Module {
        return fxutil.Component(
            // ProvideComponentConstructor will automatically detect the 'Requires' and 'Provides' structs
            // of your constructor function and map them to FX.
            fxutil.ProvideComponentConstructor(
                implzstd.NewComponent,
            )
        )
    }
    ```

!!! Info "Optional dependencies"
    Creating a conversion function to `optional.Option` will be done automatically by `ProvideComponentConstructor`.
    This means that you should be able to depends on any `comp` as a `optional.Option[comp]` if needed.

    More on this in the [FAQ](faq.md#optional-dependency).

You would create the same file in `fx-zip` folder for the ZIP implementation. In most case your component will have a

> single implementation. In this case you will only have one `impl` and `fx` folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
single implementation. If so, you have only one `impl` and `fx` folder.
```

#### `fx-void`

> Some part of the code base might have an optional dependency on you components (see [FAQ](faq.md#optional-dependency)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some parts of the codebase might have optional dependencies on your components (see [FAQ](faq.md#optional-dependency)).
```

To ease the creation of binary you need to provide a

### The mock folder

To support testing, components MUST provide a mock implementation (unless your component has no public method in its
interface).

> Your mock must implement the `Component` interface of the `def` folder but can expose more methods if needed. Your mock must

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your mock must implement the `Component` interface of the `def` folder. It can expose more methods if needed. Your mock must
```

respect the same logic as other implementation: having a public constructor, being possible to take dependencies

> through fx, ...

Reviewer: unfinished sentence

> In the following case, our mock has no dependencies and returns the same string every time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following example, your mock has no dependencies and returns the same string every time.
```

=== ":octicons-file-code-16: comp/compression/mock/mock.go"
    ```go
    //go:build test

    package mock

    import (
        "testing"

        "github.com/DataDog/datadog-agent/comp/compression/def"
    )

    type Provides struct {
        Comp def.Component
    }

    type mock struct {}

    // NewMockCompressor returns a mock compressor
    func NewMockCompressor() Provides {
        return Provides{
            comp: &mock{},
        }
    }

    // Compress compresses the input data using ZSTD
    func (c *mock) Compress(data []byte) ([]byte, error) {
        return []byte("compressed"), nil
    }

    // Decompress decompresses the input data using ZSTD.
    func (c *compressor) Decompress(data []byte) ([]byte, error) {
        return []byte("decompressed"), nil
    }
    ```

> We need a `Fx` wrapper:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need an Fx wrapper:
```

=== ":octicons-file-code-16: comp/compression/fx-mock/fx.go"
    ```go

    package fxmock

    import (
        "github.com/DataDog/datadog-agent/pkg/util/fxutil"

        "github.com/DataDog/datadog-agent/comp/compression/mock"
    )

    // Module specifies the compression module.
    func Module() fxutil.Module {
        return fxutil.Component(fxutil.ProvideComponentConstructor(mock.NewMockCompressor))
    }
    ```

### Go module

> Go module are not mandatory, but if you want to allow your component to be used outside the datadog-agent repository you
> would create go module in the following places:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Go modules are not mandatory, but if you want to allow your component to be used outside the `datadog-agent` repository, create Go modules in the following places:
```

* In the `impl`/`impl-*` folder that you want to expose (you can only expose some implementations).
* In the `def` folder to expose the interface
* In the `mock` folder to expose the mock

> You should, never, add a go module to the component folder (ie: `comp/compression`) nor any `Fx` ones.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Never add a Go module to the component folder (for example,`comp/compression`) or any `fx` folders.
```

## Final state

> In the end, here what a classic component folder should look like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the end, a classic component folder should look like:
```

```
comp/<component>/
├── def
│   └── component.go
├── fx
│   └── fx.go
├── fx-mock
│   └── fx.go
├── impl
│   └── component.go
└── mock
    └── mock.go

4 directories, 4 files
```

> Our example, which has 2 implementations looks like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The example compression component, which has two implementations, looks like:
```

```
comp/core/compression/
├── def
│   └── component.go
├── fx-mock
│   └── fx.go
├── fx-zip
│   └── fx.go
├── fx-zstd
│   └── fx.go
├── impl-zip
│   └── component.go
├── impl-zstd
│   └── component.go
└── mock
    └── mock.go

7 directories, 7 files
```

> This can seems a lot for a simple compression component, but this design answer the exponentially increasing complexity

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This can seem like a lot for a single compression component, but this design answers the exponentially increasing complexity
```

of the Agent ecosystem. Your component needs to behave correctly with many binaries composed of unique and shared

> components, outside repositories that want to pull only specific features and everything in between.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
components, outside repositories that want to pull only specific features, and everything in between.
```

!!! Info "Important"

>     No components known how and where it will be used and MUST therefore respect all the rules above. It's a very

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    No components know how or where they will be used and MUST, therefore, respect all the rules above. It's a very
```

>     common pattern for teams to work only on their use cases thinking their code will not be used anywhere else. But

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    common pattern for teams to work only on their use cases, thinking their code will not be used anywhere else. But
```

>     customers want common behavior between all our products (agent, serverless, agentless, helm, operator, ...).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    customers want common behavior between all Datadog products (Agent, serverless, Agentless, Helm, Operator, etc.).
```

    A key idea behind the component is to produce shareable and reusable code.

## General consideration about designing components

Your component must:

* Be thread safe.
* Any public methods should be able to be used as soon as your constructor is called. It's OK if some do nothing or
  drop data as long as the agent lifecycle is still in its init phase (see [lifecycle section for more | TODO]()).
* Be clearly documented (see section below).
* Be tested.

### Documentation

The documentation (both package-level and method-level) should include everything a user of the component needs to know.

> In particular, any assumptions that might lead to panic if violated by the user should be documented.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In particular, the documentation must address any assumptions that might lead to panic if violated by the user.
```

Detailed documentation of how to avoid bugs in using a component is an indicator of excessive complexity and should be
treated as a bug. Simplifying the usage will improve the robustness of the Agent.

Documentation should include:

* Precise information on when each method may be called. Can methods be called concurrently?
* Precise information about data ownership of passed values and returned values. Users can assume that any mutable value
  returned by a component will not be modified by the user or the component after it is returned. Similarly, any mutable

>   value passed to a component will not be later modified either by the component or the caller. Any deviation from these

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  value passed to a component will not be later modified, whether by the component or the caller. Any deviation from these
```
